# Contributing Guideline

Thank you for your interest in contributing to MOOC! To keep the project maintainable and code quality high, please follow the guideline below.

## General Principles
- Keep code clean, readable, and maintainable.
- When it comes to naming conventions, formatting, project structure, etc. follow established standards and best practices.
- Avoid deprecated methods, classes, or patterns.

## Code Quality
- Ensure your code compiles and works (real life testing).
- Keep pull requests as small and focused as possible. Try not to change too much in one go.
- Remove dead code and unused imports.
- Document non-obvious decisions/features with comments.
- For new methods and classes add JavaDoc (use the auto generate feature your IDE provides)

## Refactorings & Improvements are welcome when they
- Improve readability or maintainability
- Reduce complexity
- Improve performance
- Replace outdated or deprecated implementations

## AI-assisted contributions are allowed when
- The resulting code is not 100% generated by AI.
- The contributor has fully understood and reviewed the generated code.
- The generated code meets the same quality standards as manually written code.

> Pure AI-generated contributions submitted without proper review, understanding, or adaptation will be deleted without discussion.

## Feature Requests

### Before implementing a new feature:
- Open an issue or start a discussion.
- Describe the problem and proposed solution.
- Wait for feedback or approval before starting implementation.

> Whilst I generally will not deny a feature that is a solution to a problem. I will have to weigh its usefullness with MOOC not getting too bloated.

## Pull Request Process
- Use clear, descriptive commit and PR messages.
- Reference related issues, discussions and resources where applicable.
